---
tags:
  - lecture/Monk
lien vers le sommaire: "[[The monk who sell his ferarri]]"
---
You are sitting in the middle of a magnificent, lush, **[[chap 7 - a most extraordinary garden|green garden]]**. This garden is filled with the most spectacular **flowers** you have ever seen. The environment is supremely tranquil and silent. Savor the sensual delights of this garden and feel as if you have all the time in the world to enjoy this natural oasis. As you look around you see that in the center of this magical garden stands a towering, red **[[chap 8 - kindling your inner fire||lighthouse]]**, six stories high. Suddenly, the silence of the garden is disturbed by a loud creaking as the door at the base of the lighthouse opens. Out stumbles a nine-foot-tall, nine-hundred-pound **[[chap 10 - the power of discipline|Japanese sumo wrestler]]** who casually wanders into the center of the garden. The Japanese sumo wrestler is almost totally naked. He has a **pink wire cable covering his private parts**.”
As this sumo wrestler starts to move around the garden, he finds a shiny **[[chap 11 - your most precious commodity|gold stopwatch]]** which someone had left behind many years earlier. He slips it on, and falls to the ground with an enormous thud. The sumo wrestler is rendered unconscious and lies there, silent and still. Just when you think he has taken his last breath , the wrestler awakens, perhaps stirred by the fragrance of some **[[chap 12 - the ultimate purpose of life|fresh yellow roses]]** blooming nearby. Energized, the wrestler jumps swiftly to his feet and intuitively looks to his left. He is startled by what he sees. Through the bushes at the very edge of the garden he observes a long winding **[[chap 13 -the timeless secret of lifelong happiness|path covered by millions of sparkling diamonds]]**. Something seems to instruct the wrestler to take the path, and to his credit, he does. This path leads him down the road of everlasting joy and eternal bliss.